It's Eater.
Where did she come from?
I don't know.
I heard someone running down.
- I thought it was the Killer.
- No, it's not.
It doesn't mean we're safe.
We don't know who she is.
We could ask her.
- It's just an idea.
- It's not your job to have ideas.
What do we do?
Watch her and check our weapons.
Okay.
I can't believe you.
Rick, what were you thinking?
I had it under control.
Why would you do that?
- I was ju-- I--
- Spit it out!
Because she was gonna die.
Yeah, that was the point, Rick.
I cut the rope.
- Well, you--
- She was headed to IT.
You could've told me.
What is that?
- Where is she?
- She went back in.
Don't go!
Do I look bad?
- No, no, no. I--
- Is that--
I just...
I thought maybe you'd look different.
Is that the Killer?
Hey. Wait, did I hurt you? Are you okay?
- Yes! No! Kinda.
- No? Okay. Come on.
- We have to kill him.
- I'm sorry.
It's not your fault.
It's okay.
Okay.
Why didn't you do it?
But he can get us into the vault.
- Shit.
- He's still breathing.
- I'll finish it.
- No, no, no.
He can't get us food if he's dead.
We have to get out of here.
Come on.
Get the ax. And then tell us
if she's coming up.
Hey, what did he say?
I knew it. He didn't give you the code.
- No, it was ju--
- I told you to get the ax.
She came out of the water.
She's coming up the stairs.
She's gonna see the blood. Fuck!
No, I added blood.
You added blood?
Yeah. My own. To lead her away.
You know, even if she finds us,
we could use her.
Maybe if she's in danger,
he can give us the code.
No, it's not worth the risk.
If she gets too close, we scare her off.
And then we kill him,
like we said we would,
and leave his body
so she knows to stay the fuck away.
- What if we try something else? What if--
- No one wants to hear your ideas.
All right?
Just keep a lookout and let us know
if she's coming or not.
Audrey, wait.
Stop!
Hey!
I already put one arrow in your shoulder.
One more move and this one
goes straight into your heart.
Just listen. The man you took
has something that belongs to me.
I just want it back. That's all.
We told you, he's dead.
If he was dead,
you would've put his body there
and you would've shot me
as soon as I got close.
Look, we can trade.
You set him free, and I'll let her go.
We don't give a shit about her.
I'm gonna leave. I need my stuff.
So I need to see him.
I need to talk to him. He has my stu--
You can talk to him
if you get us the food from his vault.
- I don't know the code.
- Figure it out.
What the fuck are you doing?
What, are you just gonna let her
out of our sight?
I'll go with her.
Fine. Good.
This is your fault anyway.
If you try anything, we'll know.
I just fed my baby
and she won't cry again
until she's hungry.
If you don't get into the vault
by the next time she cries...
Okay.
...we'll kill your friend.
We think we're the chosen ones...
but we're just one of many.
The Founders didn't build a single silo.
They built 50.
Technically, 51.
Why?
Good question.
I don't know.
Could Juliette have made it
to another silo?
She did. But then the images
from her helmet cut out.
So she could still be alive?
Unlikely.
That silo is no longer functional.
All IT heads and their shadows
know about the other silos.
That is not what Quinn
would need to put in code.
Keep going.
The day I found the book,
I knew I was supposed to destroy it.
But there was something inside me,
it wouldn't let go.
Why is it illegal for us to have this?
I don't know.
It's not right, Paul.
Whatever happened, this was our world.
We deserve to know where we came from,
no matter what the Pact says.
I know that makes you uncomfortable...
but I also know it's true.
You know, you can't just
keep trying random numbers.
- You only get three tries per day--
- I know.
Look, if you know something that
actually would help me, then come with me.
If not, just wait.
Okay? It's not like I can sneak out
some other way, right?
- You said you were going outside?
- Yeah, I've tried but every time I--
Can I go with you?
No, there's one suit.
And if I don't get into the vault,
well, I'm--
Let me help.
You heard me, right? One suit.
Okay, let's go.
After Holston died, they came to me
about taking over as sheriff.
I thought they saw a leader in me.
Now I know that wasn't it.
What they really saw was someone
they could count on to fall in line,
to not ask questions.
But they misjudged me.
I have a lot of questions
and I am not willing
to leave them unanswered.
Not anymore.
It was Juliette.
She was the one who made me open my eyes,
start to see it's time.
The lies have to stop.
Well, that was a good speech.
But, what exactly can you do for us?
You asked for my help.
I didn't realize there was nothing
you could actually do.
We have another traitor we have to find.
Someone gave up the Supply raid.
How can he help with that?
He doesn't know people down here.
He knows people up top.
Any way the other deputies
would line up with us?
- I don't know.
- Why not?
That's right, because all communication
was severed, thanks to you.
- Shirl.
- Am I wrong?
What was I supposed to do?
Maybe not tell Bernard over the radio
that you were gonna launch
an investigation into him and Sims.
I'm sorry.
It's just, we can't do this alone.
But we don't know if anyone's on our side.
There is one person.
The woman who helped us get down.
Yeah, I was thinking of her.
But I don't see how we could contact her.
Who are you talking about?
Camille Sims.
You read?
Can you read?
- Yeah.
- Okay, great.
Can you look for anything
that says "Russell" or "head of IT" on it?
If the code was just written down,
someone would've found it.
Yeah, I don't know what else
to do right now.
So if you could help me find anything,
that'll be great.
Yeah.
The people in the other room that died,
did you see them?
Yeah.
Tess was Rick's mom
and Chase was Audrey's dad,
and they got together after
the other parents died and had Benny.
When my mom got sick,
she brought me to them.
She asked if they'd take me in.
And they did, when she died.
But I was kinda just...
I was just another mouth to feed.
That's why they wanted
to get into the vault.
That's why they died.
We were hungry.
The others, they blame me.
That's why they call me Eater.
That's all I am to them.
Look, I understand.
More than you know.
- Okay? Just right now, I need--
- I know. We'll look for the code.
I just wanted to tell you.
Hey, what about this?
- This--
- That's his apartment.
- It's a different address.
- Is it something?
We will see.
Here's what you gotta know.
Okay? That page that your husband has?
That's nothing.
I mean, you have no idea
what they're not telling us.
What are they not telling us?
You around a computer
when Nichols was caught?
No.
Well, if you had been, you'd have seen.
You'd know what I'm talking about.
You'd also be in a small room
with a bag over your head.
Thanks.
You remember
when the sheriff's wife cleaned?
What she said
before she said she wanted to go out?
"The display is a lie."
Exactly.
That page you saw?
Maybe that's not just the way things were.
Maybe--
Maybe that's the way things are.
Hey, have you seen Mayor Holland?
No.
Okay, well, I need to find him, like, now.
- He's unreachable.
- What is that supposed to mean?
It means you have to wait.
Okay, listen.
You don't understand, all right?
Look, the life of the Silo
depends on me finding him right now.
You don't understand.
Your life depends on you
letting go of my arm.
I have orders not to disturb him
until this evening.
Walk.
- What do you want?
- Missed you at breakfast.
Wasn't hungry.
Shirl said that you weren't feeling good.
That's bullshit.
What she said was,
"Walk can't leave her workshop again."
Ever since I got back,
I can't go near that door.
I can't even think about it
without my heart jumping into my throat.
I was wrong to think I could get over it.
I was stupid.
It wasn't stupid.
- Just takes time.
- Yeah. Well, there isn't any.
They've got my wife.
First time I lost her,
that's when this all started.
It's not gonna go away.
Not if I don't get her back.
Walk, look at me.
Look at me.
You're gonna get her back.
How do you know?
'Cause you missed something at breakfast.
We have the sheriff now.
He's with us.
We're gonna take control of the Silo.
And the first thing we're gonna do
is free McLain.
I just wanted you to know
that we have a plan.
Get some rest.
You heard everything I did.
How do I know,
when you got me shackled to this room?
Mom.
Lukas, what's wrong?
- Where have you been? Are you okay?
- Nothing's wrong, Mom.
All I got was a note saying my son had
been sentenced to five years in the mines.
Well, they released me.
All right, look,
I can't explain all of that--
- You've been free for how long?
- Not long. I couldn't get away.
- To tell me you're safe?
- Just... Mom, I need you to take this.
Hide it somewhere
no one can find it, okay?
No, I won't. I thought I'd lost you.
- You're putting your life at risk again?
- You don't understand.
You were always this way,
even as a little boy.
- I don't have a choice.
- There's peace in the unknown, Lukas.
I wish you could find it,
but you're driven to solve things
even when they can't be solved.
And now it's led you here, to whatever--
No, what's led me here is being a coward.
Sheriff Nichols came to me for help
and I told her I couldn't give it to her
because I was the only one
taking care of my mother.
- What? But you don't--
- I lied.
I lied to her, Mom,
to get out of doing the right thing.
And I didn't help her.
I didn't report her either. I just...
did nothing.
I'm not gonna make
that same mistake again.
- Okay?
- Yeah.
Hey.
Thank you.
Your Russell guy had a kid.
Hey, what do you eat in your silo?
It changes.
Depends on what they have
in the cafeteria.
So you never had to eat a rat?
No.
What is it?
Nothing.
So you said Chase and Tess,
they were trying to get into the vault.
Yeah, but they never found the code.
They gave up looking for it.
They just kept trying new numbers.
I don't know how they kept track.
What did you say?
I do.
- Shit.
- What?
I drew that, but I didn't know
that the numbers were--
Chase and Tess wrote these.
I know their handwriting.
So they got in, right?
Otherwise, he wouldn't have killed them.
So it would have been here,
which I erased. That's great.
Anyway, I think I can figure it out
with what I've got here.
One, two, three,
four, five, six, seven, eight...
Fifteen, 16, 17.
So, nine, 29, 30, 31,
32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37.
Thirty-seven, 38.
One, two, three, four.
One, two.
Zero, three.
Why do these all have two names?
Bobby Parsons, Lynn Montgomery,
Emily Ames.
The first is your first name
and the second one's called your last.
Do you have one? A last name.
Yeah. Nichols.
My mom only gave me one.
Doesn't matter anymore.
The baby will wake up soon.
Okay, could you bring me a slate please?
Eight, nine.
- Nobody gets any further.
- The mayor sent me.
You know, I'm his shadow.
I have authorization to cross, so...
Unless you wanna be reported
for obstructing my movement--
It's not safe down there.
Are you sure you wanna go?
I'm sure.
Make it quick.
Hey! Grab him! Come here!
- Okay, all right.
- All right, let's go.
Look, I need to get to the bottom.
They let this one through.
- Who are you?
- I'm Lukas Kyle.
What would someone from IT,
with a blue ID no less,
be doing in the Down Deep?
Who sent you?
No one. I came on my own.
- Take him back.
- No, hey, listen.
You think I would be coming down here
in the middle of all of this
if I didn't have to?
Fuck. I am trying to save the Silo.
If Mr. Blue ID continues
to be an asshole, pitch him over the side.
Fuck, stop!
Just... Wait, I knew Juliette Nichols.
Like hell you did.
Her boyfriend's name was George.
As the senior members of your department,
I wanted to brief you
on the rebels' latest assault,
which I'm sure you're aware of.
We are, sir.
Their intention was to steal gunpowder
from Supply
and use it to blast open the silo door.
We were able to stop their reckless plan,
a plan we've since realized
was put into motion by Paul Billings.
How do we know that?
The rebels in custody all identified him
as responsible.
As such, we've decided
to strip Billings of his badge
and leave the post vacant
until further notice.
One last thing,
all deputies and their support staff
are being assigned
to the cafeteria on this level.
We need to convert it
into a temporary holding cell.
You want us to build a jail?
You told us that we wouldn't have to do
anything related to the rebellion.
Unfortunately, circumstances have changed.
Shit.
- There's still one left.
- Yeah, I know.
But if I get it wrong, then we're locked
out for 24 hours...
and Solo will fucking die.
- So...
- That's his name? Solo?
- Why?
- I don't know.
Is it his first or second name?
No, it's just not his name at all.
That's Solo.
That's not you.
That is the actual IT shadow.
I don't know who you are.
I am the IT shadow.
Do you understand?
Do not say those words to me!
Don't you ever!
Do you understand? I am Solo.
I am the IT shadow!
He's not who he says he is.
She used to sit next to me.
She said that her name
meant blue or something.
Solo? This is a Level B classroom?
So she would've been 11 or 12
when the rebellion started.
So, how were you sitting next to her?
Well, I didn't say
that this belonged to her.
It's just that it reminded me of her.
The rebellion...
how old were you when that happened?
I wasn't born yet.
My mom didn't even remember.
She was just a baby then.
Oh, fuck.
He was just a kid.
That was Solo's classroom.
Conroy.
That's Russell's last name.
In the apartment. The lunch box.
Hey.
That's him.
If you're the one in charge,
I need you to let me go.
How did you know Jules?
We used to talk in the cafeteria,
when she was leaving work, okay?
Then you didn't really know her.
I know that she was searching
for the truth.
So am I.
That's what brought me down here.
Sounds like something
your boss would tell you to say.
Hey, wait. I think Juliette
could still be alive.
Where?
I'll tell you.
But only if you take me
where I need to go.
I've got no idea who it could be.
Bernard got a tip-off on the raid
from someone.
Another listener?
Could be.
How'd they get a message to Bernard?
There's no computers, no porters.
Maybe they passed a piece of paper
to one of the raiders.
- I mean, that's what you did.
- Yeah, but I have no idea
if that message got where I want it to go.
Sheriff, they're asking for you
at the barricade.
Someone to see you.
Looks like your message got through.
You want us to come with you?
A show of strength?
Better if it's just me.
Getting a message through the barricade.
What? What is it?
I know who betrayed us.
- Wa... Hey. You get in?
- No.
- Hey, you need to let me talk to him.
- No, that wasn't the deal.
Okay.
Look, your parents,
they figured out the code, right?
I've narrowed it down to six combinations.
I get three chances a day.
I've tried two,
so the only way I can get in
- is if you let me talk to him.
- No, you don't get to see him.
If you let her kill him,
you'll never get in.
- You need to open the vault!
- No, I don't.
I don't need to,
I could just leave, right?
I don't need
to get into the fucking vault. You do.
- You need to get int--
- Wait, wait.
That's my mom's.
Where did you get that?
Her talking to him is the best shot
we have at getting into the vault.
Hey.
Hey, are you okay?
Shit.
- I failed.
- What?
No. No... You didn't--
- He told me...
- What do you mean?
...not to let anyone in the vault.
Well, I didn't get in.
No one's been in the vault.
Then what are you doing here?
Look, I understand how important it is
to protect the vault.
I do.
I get it.
I promise you, if you give me the code--
- I won't. I--
- No, please. Just listen.
I'll go in, I'll get food.
That's all they want.
I could... I want to go back to my silo.
No. Just... You might as well
let them come in here and kill me now.
No, just think about it please.
- Russell chose me to be his shadow.
- No.
I am the only one left
to keep the vault safe.
You were never his shadow.
- I swore an oath.
- No.
But you weren't his shadow.
You were his son.
Benny, I told you to use the ladder.
I will. Next time.
I'll be right back.
Are you gonna kill him now?
Hey, do you remember?
I've never seen this before.
- I know you don't want to try but I--
- Get out!
- Hey, no. No, just wait.
- Just--
- Fine.
- Stop, please.
I have more arrows.
Audrey, wait.
You're taking their side?
I wanna hear what he has to say.
Just put it down.
Okay, okay.
Tell us how you killed our parents.
- What happened?
- He asked me to do one thing
- and I failed.
- What do you mean you failed?
They got in. They got the right code
and they got in.
And I was right there.
I was right there and I did nothing.
Even after they came in, I didn't wake up.
- I did--
- You were asleep?
I didn't... I did... I--
I didn't wake up until...
It's okay. Until what? What?
It was very loud.
What was loud?
I'm so fucking stupid.
I left the gun by the door.
Did they shoot you while you were asleep?
- Is that what happened?
- You can't believe him.
- Rick.
- Then what?
He killed our parents.
- I didn't want to.
- But you did!
They got inside the food vault.
So...
I broke off the inside handle
of the door and I shut it,
and they couldn't get out
'cause it was sealed.
So they ran out of air?
It doesn't matter how he did it.
He killed them and he's lying
about them shooting him.
Do you have a scar?
Yeah? I know you don't want to show them
but they need to know
you're telling the truth.
- I'm not lying.
- Can I just--
- Yeah?
- Yeah.
Okay.
Are you gonna give us the code or not?
Fine.
How about this?
We'll figure it out
eventually ourselves, right?
So we don't need him.
One less eater.
Your name's Jimmy Conroy.
- Move. I said move!
- And you were 12 when the rebellion--
You were 12--
Stop! Stop, please. Just listen.
He was 12, okay,
when the rebellion happened. Twelve.
He wasn't old enough to be able
to be responsible for all of this.
You were 12.
Jimmy was a coward.
- No.
- Jimmy hid behind a door...
Open the damn door, Jimmy!
...while the sheriff held a gun
to his father's head.
All he had to do was open the door
and he didn't. So--
Dad.
Does that sound
like the son of a hero to you?
Russell would've been ashamed
to have a son like that.
No, you're wrong.
He would've been so proud
'cause you did what he asked you to do.
"Don't open the door.
Don't let anyone in."
- That's what he said to you, right?
- Yeah.
Yeah, do you know why he said that?
'Cause he wanted to save the vault.
Because he wanted to save the Silo.
No. No, Jimmy.
He wanted to save you.
He wanted you to live.
Come... Just like their parents
wanted them to live.
That's why your father was protecting you.
Just like they want their child to live.
Okay?
They have a kid?
They have a baby.
A baby.
- It's okay.
- Rick.
- I need to do it.
It's okay.
Okay.
Yeah?
- Yeah. Okay.
- Okay.
You got my message?
No, Paul, I just decided
to walk down a hundred levels.
Where's the relic?
We need privacy.
On the stairs,
in the middle of a rebellion?
So it's true.
You really have crossed the line.
Gone over to the other side.
I didn't go anywhere.
The line moved.
Let me see it.
It's not safe to open here.
You made me come all this way
'cause I'm the only one you could trust.
- Come on, we both know that's a lie.
- You're right.
I wanted to see your wife.
But all I had for bait was this relic,
so it had to be you.
She helped two rebels escape capture
when they were on the run,
which makes me wonder if maybe
some of us care more
about the safety of the Silo
than anything else.
When you see this...
you'll understand why
I don't have any choice but to trust you.
To do what?
I haven't been down this far in years.
Jules hinted this is where
she came with George.
You were right, you know. I--
I didn't really know her.
We only talked a few times and...
I never met anyone like her.
There isn't anyone like her.
Yeah.
I thought she was amazing.
So amazing that I tried to kiss her.
And you're still alive?
You're lucky.
I didn't know about George.
Not until later.
I just--
I wish I would've done something more
to help her.
We all do.
Yeah.
I've been coming down here for years.
I've never heard anything about a tunnel.
You're sure it's down there?
Yeah, that's what I was told.
Then you were lied to.
The only thing at the bottom is water.
I don't think it's that deep.
Right? Think about it.
This whole space should be filled
with water, but it's not.
So, what?
You're saying there's pumps down there
that Mechanical doesn't know about?
There have to be.
You willing to bet your life on that?
Yes.
Yeah, I'm coming.
Since when do you have to knock?
I thought you'd want to know.
I figured out who the traitor is.
It's Teddy's mom.
I saw her yesterday
before the raid on Supply.
She was at the barricade.
I think she was just afraid...
that Teddy would be killed.
Did you talk to her?
Not yet.
Can't punish her.
Not for trying to protect her son.
But we're in a jam now, Walk.
What we're doing, it's not working.
We gotta change the game.
Why are you telling me?
I couldn't find Shirl
and needed someone to run it by.
I'm all ears.
You know the rest of the gunpowder
we took from Supply?
We're gonna use it.
You just... You know--
This is--
It's a boat I've been working on.
It's a sailboat.
You know, I was gonna heat up some food,
but I think maybe we should start
with something else.
Ice cream.
- Wait, wait.
- No, it's okay. You can go in.
This is it.
Yeah, let's...
Just leave--
Hey.
Okay. It's okay.
They're drums. You play 'em.
Yeah.
- Like that?
- Yep.
Wow.
Birds.
Hey, you guys wanna hear some music?
What's that?
It's music. It--
I actually think it's better
than ice cream.
I kept it safe.
Thanks.
This isn't the only suit though.
There's one
you didn't tell me about, right?
The head of IT gets a suit,
in case the air lock is breached
and they need to safely get back
to the vault.
- What is it?
- Nothing.
I'm sorry that I didn't tell you about it.
That's fine. I almost drowned and...
got shot with an arrow.
I don't understand that.
If you found a suit,
why didn't you just leave?
You ready?
Yeah.
You okay?
- Wait.
- What?
Tell me what happened to Jules.
In case I die?
Well, yeah.
Right.
Right. There was a camera
in her cleaning helmet.
And when it stopped working,
she was still alive.
- What?
- Yeah.
Did you see her?
No, it's what I was told.
Does that mean she's still out there?
I don't know. I--
If I knew, I would tell you.
But I hope so.
Right. Wish me luck.
You're gonna need it.
'Cause you're on your own.
Great.
Do you think it's real?
I don't know.
- It's time for us to pick a side.
- You think they'll win?
They might,
if you do what Paul Billings asked.
Rob, if they do win,
they'll need someone to run the Silo.
That could be you.
This is what we need to do.
For Anthony.
I can't do it.
They see me as the enemy.
Okay.
Okay, I'll do it.
There is something else I can do.
Bernard has a key.
Number 18 on it.
And when things go sideways,
it lights up and buzzes,
and he disappears.
It happened when we got word
Mayor Jahns picked Nichols to be Sheriff.
He took off. I followed him.
He used the key to go through the door
into the Server Room.
When he returned,
he told me he had to become Mayor.
What's in the Server Room?
Besides servers.
I don't know.
The only person with access
is the head of IT
or whoever has the key.
Lukas Kyle.
Why are you here?
I was given instructions.
By whom?
Salvador Quinn.
Before you,
only three people have reached this door:
Salvador Quinn, Mary Meadows,
and George Wilkins.
I did not speak with Wilkins.
Quinn and Meadows were both given
the same directive you will now receive.
If you speak to anyone
about this conversation
or what you have seen down here,
we will have no choice
but to initiate the Safeguard.
Do you know
what the Safeguard is, Mr. Kyle?
I do.